This repo contains the code of the paper A universal 2-staten-action adaptive management solver

REQUIREMENTS:

This code is implemented in R and calls external packages. Users need to make sure that their version of R is 4.0.2 and the packages MDPtoolbox and data.table are installed. 

Our package uses SARSOP (https://github.com/AdaCompNUS/sarsop ), which also needs to be priorly installed.


HOW TO?
* Build a hmMDP using MC-UAMS:
    - go to the folder "src/building hmMDP".
    - Open the "main.R" file.
    - Select the example to run (uncomment the corresponding data file)
    - Run "main.R"
    - The file runs MC-UAMS, and writes the ".pomdpx" file the folder "res/"
    - The ".pomdpx" can be used as input for MO-SARSOP (to be called outside R pomdpsol xxx); the resulting output file ".policyx" can be stored in the folder "data" 

* Call the PUBD algorithm:
    - go to the folder "src/Dirichlet solver".
    - Open the "main.R" file.
    - Select the example to run (uncomment the corresponding data file)
    - Run "main.R"
    - The file runs PUBD and returns the optimal solution of the discrete MDP of hyperstates

* Run simulations:
    - make sure that the hmMDP solution (calculated using SARSOP)"xxx.policyx" file is in the folder "data/POLICYX"
    - go to the folder "src/simulations".
    - Open the "main.R" file.
    - Select the example to run (uncomment the corresponding data file)
    - Run "main.R"
    - The results of simulations are stored as csv files in the folder "res/"

* Analyse the results of simulations:
    - go to the folder "src/analyse results".
    - Open the "main.R" file.
    - Select the example that you wish to run (uncomment the corresponding data file)
    - Run "main.R"
    - The analysis of results is stored as a csv file in the folder "res/performance"

DESCRIPTION of THE FOLDERS

data contains the input data used in our paper:
* examples2SXA.R / potoroo.R /gouldian.R define the Adaptive Management problems (random and conservation – see supplementary material of details).
* gouldian4Exp.pomdpx is the original hmMDP assessed by 4 experts
* POLICYX:
	- XXX.policyx are the solution files returned by SARSOP.

res contains the outputs of simulations:
* expert_model:
	- For the case study of Gouldian finch, the files simXXX_expert_model.csv are the output of performance trajectories when the real model is included in the Experts set
* meanparams:
	- meanparamsXXX.csv are the parameters generated by MC-UAMS that are used to build our 2-state n-actions hmMDP (adaptive management solvers) 
* POMDPX:
	- XXX.pomdpx are the POMDPX files obtained with MC-UAMS
* randomMDP:
	- XXX_randomMDP.csv describe the values of the true random MDPs that are used to assess MC-UAMS and PUBD 
* simhmMDP
	- simhmMDPXXX.csv are the output of performance trajectories when applying MC-UAMS
* simopt
	- simoptXXX.csv are the output of performance trajectories when applying the true (unknown) optimal MDP policies
* simparams
	- simparamsXXX.csv are the output of performance trajectories when applying PUBD (see supplementary material for details about the algorithm).

src contains the source files:
* analyse results:
	- main.R : file to run to analyse the results
* building hmMDP:
	- generate_pomdpx.R : R wrapper to write the POMDPX file of a hmMDP.
	- main.R : file to run to build the POMDPX file of the examples in data (edit to select the problem)
	- mean_parameters.R : function to run Monte Carlo simulations that estimate the parameters of a MC-UAMS
* Dirichlet solver:
	- dirichlet_solver.R: main function to run the PUBD algorithm
	- main.R: main file to run to get the output of the PUBD algorithm
* simulations:
	- build_matrices_hmMDP.R : function to build the observation and reward matrix of a hmMDP
	- generate_random_mdp.R: function to draw uniformly MDPs
	- read_policyx.R : function to open policyx files
	- main.R : main file to run simulations of management
	- sim_mdp_momdp_policy.R : function to run simulations of management using the output of MC-UAMS
	- sim_mdp_parameter_uncertainty.R : function  to run simulations of management using the output of PUBD (dirichlet_solver)

